Docs / Quantization: refactor quantization documentation (#30942)
huggingface/transformers: docs/source/en/quantization/bitsandbytes.md

an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License for the
specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.

⚠️ Note that this file is in Markdown but contain specific syntax for our doc-builder (similar to MDX) that may not be
rendered properly in your Markdown viewer.

-->

# bitsandbytes

[bitsandbytes](https://github.com/TimDettmers/bitsandbytes) is the easiest option for quantizing a model to 8 and 4-bit. 8-bit quantization multiplies outliers in fp16 with non-outliers in int8, converts the non-outlier values back to fp16, and then adds them together to return the weights in fp16. This reduces the degradative effect outlier values have on a model's performance. 4-bit quantization compresses a model even further, and it is commonly used with [QLoRA](https://hf.co/papers/2305.14314) to finetune quantized LLMs.

To use bitsandbytes, make sure you have the following libraries installed:

<hfoptions id="bnb">
<hfoption id="8-bit">

```bash
pip install transformers accelerate bitsandbytes>0.37.0
```

</hfoption>
<hfoption id="4-bit">

```bash
pip install bitsandbytes>=0.39.0

> pip install --upgrade accelerate
> pip install --upgrade transformers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
pip install --upgrade accelerate transformers
```

```

</hfoption>
</hfoptions>

Now you can quantize a model with the `load_in_8bit` or `load_in_4bit` parameters in the [`~PreTrainedModel.from_pretrained`] method. This works for any model in any modality, as long as it supports loading with Accelerate and contains `torch.nn.Linear` layers.

<hfoptions id="bnb">
<hfoption id="8-bit">

Quantizing a model in 8-bit halves the memory-usage, and for large models, set `device_map="auto"` to efficiently use the GPUs available:

```py
from transformers import AutoModelForCausalLM

> model_8bit = AutoModelForCausalLM.from_pretrained("bigscience/bloom-1b7", device_map="auto", load_in_8bit=True)

Reviewer: Should we update these examples to use the `BitsAndBytesConfig` class?

Author: Makes sense, done!

    load_in_4bit=True,
    bnb_4bit_quant_type="nf4",
)

model_nf4 = AutoModelForCausalLM.from_pretrained(model_id, quantization_config=nf4_config)
```

For inference, the `bnb_4bit_quant_type` does not have a huge impact on performance. However, to remain consistent with the model weights, you should use the `bnb_4bit_compute_dtype` and `torch_dtype` values.

### Nested quantization

Nested quantization is a technique that can save additional memory at no additional performance cost. This feature performs a second quantization of the already quantized weights to save an addition 0.4 bits/parameter. For example, with nested quantization, you can finetune a [Llama-13b](https://huggingface.co/meta-llama/Llama-2-13b) model on a 16GB NVIDIA T4 GPU with a sequence length of 1024, a batch size of 1, and enabling gradient accumulation with 4 steps.

```py
from transformers import BitsAndBytesConfig

double_quant_config = BitsAndBytesConfig(
    load_in_4bit=True,
    bnb_4bit_use_double_quant=True,
)

model_double_quant = AutoModelForCausalLM.from_pretrained("meta-llama/Llama-2-13b", quantization_config=double_quant_config)
```

## Dequantizing `bitsandbytes` models

> Once quantized, you can dequantize the model to the original precision. Note this might result in a small quality loss of the model. Make also sure to have enough GPU RAM to fit the dequantized model. 
> Below is how to perform dequantization on a 4-bit model using `bitsandbytes`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once quantized, you can dequantize the model to the original precision but this might result in a small quality loss of the model. Make sure you have enough GPU RAM to fit the dequantized model. 
```
